Ha right.
So in the last lesson we've looked at one particular folder spam one and we've loaded all the message
bodies into a data frame.
What I want to do in this lesson is call RDF from directory function.
A few more times to load all the emails that we've got into a single data frame and have extracted all
the bodies from those emails.
So that means that in addition to our spam one folder we're going to be loading in our spam to folder
our non spam one and our non spam to folders as well.
So let's get right on that.
I'm going to modify this cell right here and what I'm going to do is take my spam underscore emails
data frame and we're going to overwrite it.
We're going to append the emails from the other folder and updated so spam emails don't append and what
are we appending.
Well we can append the return value from RDF from directory function.
So yeah from the rectory spam to path comma one will extract all the emails from our second folder containing
the spam emails and then just append all of those values to our data frame.
If I hit shift enter on this and also hit shift enter on shape we can now see that we've got one thousand
eight hundred and ninety eight values instead of the 500 or so that we had earlier.
Now one other thing we can do to make our code slightly more readable is to change this value here.
This one to a constant.
That's a little bit more descriptive tells us a little bit more about what this one actually stands
for scrolling back up to her constants.
We can add another constant here namely spam underscore S.A.T. shortfall category.
Set that equal to one hand while we're at it we can also add a ham under school category constant and
set that equal to zero.
So henceforth every time we need to refer to the category we can use these constants right here using
the word ham to refer to non spam emails is something that you'll actually see a lot in the literature
on spam classification.
I'm not exactly sure why but I suspect it's because this group of people really liked wordplay.
So spam and habit is for us as well.
How is scrolling back down to our last cell where we left off.
I want to pose a challenge to you.
I want you to create a data frame that contains all the emails from the non spam directories and then
I want you to also print out the shape of this data frame and then we'll take it from there.
So pause the video and give that a shot.
Create a data frame with all the non spam emails similar to what I've done for the spam emails.
Did you have a go.
All right.
Here's the solution.
Ham underscore emails.
It's gonna be what I'm going to call my data frame.
I'm going to use my data frame from directory function and I'm going to pointed to easy non spam one
path and you use the ham category have to that.
I'm also going to do the same thing I did before.
I'm going to use my ham emails data frame and I'm going to append the data frame from directory pointed
to easy non spam to path and also using the ham category Finally we said we'd print out the shape right.
So ham emails dot should give us what we're looking for.
Hitting shift enter.
Let's see what we get.
So I'm getting three thousand nine hundred and two files being appended to this data frame.
Brilliant.
Now what we can do is we can get a data frame that holds onto all our emails both spam and non spam.
So I'm just gonna call this data frame data.
Got a lot of imagination as you can tell.
And when you use pandas concrete method so PD dot com cat parentheses square brackets spam emails karma
how many emails then I'll add a print statement that reads shape of entire data frame is and I'll print
out data dot shape and on the next line.
Let's take a look at the head of this data frame.
It's the first five rows eliminate shift enter and put this out.
What we see is that this data frame has five thousand and eight hundred rows and two columns.
Just like before.
I've got the file names here as an index.
I've got my category showing whether I've got spam or non spam and I've got the message body here in
the message column.
If you're curious where the non spam emails are hiding in our data frame it's gonna be in the tail.
So here we have a couple of category zero non spam emails hiding out.
All right.
That's it.
We've basically taken five thousand eight hundred files from our local disk and we've converted them
into a panda's data frame.
We've converted them into a format that we can manipulate and work with in our Python code.
So I think that's quite an achievement I see in the next lesson.
Take care.